Now we'll talk about a form of
scalability called variety.
In this case, scale does not
refer to the largeness of data.
It refers to increased diversity.
Here is an important mantra
you need to think about.
When we, as data scientists, think of
data variety, we think of the additional
complexity that results from more kinds
of data that we need to store, process,
and combine.
Now, many years ago when I
started studying data management,
we always thought of data as tables.
These tables could be in spreadsheets or
databases or just files, but somehow
they will be modeled and manipulated
as rows and columns of of tables.
Now, tables are still really important and
dominant, however today a much wider
variety of data are collected, stored, and
analyzed to solve real world problems.
Image data, text data, network data,
geographic maps, computer
generated simulations are only a few of
the types of data we encounter everyday.
The heterogeneity of data can be
characterized along several dimensions.
We mentioned four such axes here.
Structural variety refers
to the difference in
the representation of the data.
For example, an EKG signal is very
different from a newspaper article.
A satellite image of wildfires from
NASA is very different from tweets
sent out by people who
are seeing the fire spread.
Media variety refers to the medium
in which the data gets delivered.
The audio of a speech versus
the transcript of the speech
may represent the same information
in two different media.
Data objects like news video
may have multiple media.
An image sequence, an audio,
and closed captioned text,
all time synchronized to each other.
Semantic variety is best
described two examples.
We often use different units for
quantities we measure.
Sometimes we also use qualitative
versus quantitative measures.
For example, age can be a number or
we represent it by terms like infant,
juvenile, or adult.
Another kind of semantic
variety comes from different
assumptions of conditions on the data.
For example, if we conduct two income
surveys on two different groups of people,
we may not be able to compare or
combine them without knowing more
about the populations themselves.
The variation and
availability takes many forms.
For one, data can be available real time,
like sensor data, or it can be stored,
like patient records.
Similarly data can be
accessible continuously, for
example from a traffic cam.
Versus intermittently, for
example, only when the satellite
is over the region of interest.
This makes a difference between what
operations one can do with data,
especially if the volume
of the data is large.
We'll cover this in more
detail in course two
when we explore the different genres
of data and how we model them.
We should not think that
a single data object, or
a collection of similar data objects,
will be all uniform in themselves.
Emails, for example, is a hybrid entity.
Some of this information can be a table,
like shown here.
Now, the body of the email
usually has text in it.
However, some of the text may
have ornaments around them.
For example,
the part highlighted in yellow represents
something called a markup on text.
We'll get to markups later in the course.
Emails contain attachments.
These are files, or embedded images,
or other multimedia objects
that the mailer allows.
This screenshot from my Outlook
shows the image of a scanned image
of a handwritten note.
When you take a collection of
all emails from your mailbox, or
that from an organization,
you will see that senders and
receivers form a communication network.
In 2001, there was a famous scandal around
a company called Enron that engaged in
fraudulent financial reporting practices.
Their email network, partly shown here,
has been studied by data scientist to find
usual and unusual patterns of connections
among the people in the organization.
An email collection can also
have it's own semantics.
For example, an email cannot refer to,
that means cannot copy or
forward, a previous email.
Finally, an email server
is a real-time data source.
But an email repository is not.
Does email, and email collections,
demonstrate significant
internal variation in structure,
media, semantics, and availability?